---
title: Future Boy! Source Code License
permalink: /misc/future-boy-license
---

FUTURE BOY! SOURCE CODE LICENSE

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Copyright (c) 2005 GCC Productions Inc.

1\. Definitions

"Copyright Holder" refers to GCC Productions Inc.

"End User" refers to a user of the Source Code.

"End User Program" refers to a computer program created by an End User,
written using the Source Code.

"License" refers to this license.

"Source Code" refers to the human-readable Hugo-language source code of
the game "Future Boy!" created by GCC Productions Inc.

2\. Ownership and Grant of Rights

2.1 The Source Code is the property of the Copyright Holder. The
Copyright Holder retains its copyright in the Source Code, without
limitation.

2.2 The Copyright Holder grants to the End User the right to use the
Source Code to create End User Programs.

2.3 End User Programs are the property of the End User. However, if an
End User Program incorporates any of the Source Code, such End User
Program shall include notice in the credits of the End User Program
stating:

`   "Contains software created by GCC Productions Inc. for the`
`   game Future Boy! (http://www.generalcoffee.com/futureboy)."`

3\. Provision of the Source Code

3.1 In no way does the Copyright Holder's act of making available the
Source Code reduce or otherwise affect in any way its rights in the
Source Code.

4\. Modification and Distribution

4.1 Distribution of the Source Code, in whole or in part, in a modified
form without the express written consent of the Copyright Holder is
prohibited.

4.2 Distribution of the Source Code, in whole or in part, for profit or
other commercial intent or monetary transaction without the express
written consent of the Copyright Holder is prohibited.

4.3 This License must be distributed with any distribution of the Source
Code.

5\. Warranty

The Source Code is provided "as is" without warranty of any kind, either
expressed or implied, including but not limited to the implied
warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose. In
no event shall the Copyright Holder or any other related or unrelated
party be liable to the End User or any other individual or entity for
damages arising out of the use or inability to use these or other
programs. Use of the Source Code indicates acceptance of these terms.